So far in this section we just delayed execution of sending an email either using the shoot queue interface
or just calling the delay method on the mail for sale.
And in this one you will see how you can create an actual job that is more like what you see on this
diagram.
So this job will be read something from the database.
It might even dispatch another jobs and will actually do an example like that that you read something
from the database in the background job.
So won't bother your main application and then will also try to send emails which in turn would also
produce another jobs to be put on the queue.
So let's go ahead and see how we can create a new job so let's open the terminal and run P2P artisan
make job and we will call this job.
Notify users
post was comment at.
So now let's take a look at the directory structure so you can see that there is new folder called jobs
created inside your up directories.
So this is where job classes will be kept so we can close the terminal now.
And this class is very simple it should remind you of the Malabo class.
So basically there is a constructor to which you can use to pass some data and then there is the handle
method which basically is everything.
This job has so larval will automatically call everything what is inside this handle method and this
will as their name suggests the comment suggests execute the job.
Now let's see how we can dispatch this job.
This patching means putting this on the queue to be executed later.
So what this will will this job will do.
It will.
It will check out what are the users that have commented on a particular blog post and it will notify
everyone else then a new comment was posted so we can clear this class.
This post comment controller a little bit so we'll leave the initial sanding to the outer of the blog
post.
But now you can also use this notify user well basically notify user so we have to use this class and
it will have a static dispatch method to which you will pass any additional arguments that will be defined
on the constructor of this class of this job class.
So currently it doesn't have anything so let's add one argument so we'll need a comment
so this would be our comment from the app comment so comment model.
Basically
now let's also add a public comment field so public comment and assign this field inside the constructor
so this comment equals comment.
So now we can pass this comment to the dispatch method and in intern bilateral.
When this job will be processed by the CU Walker this argument will be passed to this job class constructor.
So basically we can actually try that out so let's open our Q. Walker.
Sorry not this command.
Q.
This one so we run the Q Walker and now inside our application let's try to add a comment.
Hello.
Executing our job.
Now this should execute the first job which was responsible for sending that email.
You can see it was processed successfully and also we have dispatched the notify users post was commented
and also processed.
Basically because there is nothing inside this job so it just ran the handle method nothing well went
wrong and this job was marked as being processed.
So this is how you create your custom jobs not just adding that email should be cute.
But here we will actually do something but well we'll do that in the next lecture because this will
involve adding some queries to fetch older users that have commented on our blog post.
So just so you know whenever you want to move something to the background whenever this includes making
any requests to some external API using HDB clear client which is a perfect idea for a background job
all that has to do some database intensive processing like let's say calculating something we might
not create a job that will calculate the feature post every week.
Let's say you create this classes that will implement should cue you run that using to be artisan make
job and then you dispatch jobs by calling their static statically dispatch method on their job class
and then you can pass some additional arguments optionally of course which would be passed by lateral
to this job class constructor so let's follow me into the next lecture when we will actually do something
useful with this job.